the Hamas Le Health Ministry in Gaza
says 500 people have been killed in a
blast at a hospital in Gaza the facility
was filled with Wounded patients and
people seeking shelter Hamas the
islamist militant Group which governs
Gaza says an Israeli air strike hit the
hospital but Israel says the blast came
from a rocket misfired by another
Palestinian militant group Islamic
[Music]
Jihad shocked and wounded
survivors of the explosion at the Ali
Hospital in Gaza City were transferred
to the nearby shifa
hospital where doctors are doing their
best with limited space and resources to
treat
them hundreds of people died in the
Blaster allei a hospital where many
Palestinians had been seeking refuge in
recent days from The Continuous shelling
by
Israel
the terror organization Hamas blamed
Israel for the attack but the IDF is
denying
responsibility intelligence from few
sources that we have in our hands
indicates that the Islamic Jihad is
responsible for the failed rocket launch
which hit the hospital in Gaza I repeat
this is the responsibility of Islamic
Jihad that killed Innocents in the
hospital in Gaza
but the Palestinian militant group
Islamic Jihad say they are not behind
the
explosion Palestinians in the West Bank
also blame Israel for the hospital blast
anger boiled over into protests in rala
just hours
later protests in solidarity with
Palestinians in Gaza took place in
Jordan
Lebanon Iraq
and
[Applause]
Tunisia we won't remain silent this is a
message for all Arab and non-arab
countries Muslim or not we will not be
silent we support the Palestinian cause
and we're against what's happening in
Gaza the hospital explosion also
prompted Palestinian president m Abbas
to cancel his meeting in Jordan with US
President Joe Biden he says he needs to
be in his homeland during this big
ordeal well the blast came just hours
before US President Joe Biden is set to
touchdown in Israel as part of a
diplomatic push to prevent the war with
Hamas from spiraling into a wider
conflict in a statement Biden said he
had directed his National Security team
to gather information about the
explosion the president added I am
outraged and deeply saddened by the
explosion at the Al Ali Arab Hospital in
Gaza and the terrible loss of life that
resulted the United States stands
unequivocally for the protection of
civilian life during conflict and we
mourn the patients medical staff and
other Innocents killed or wounded in
this
tragedy but a planned Summit in Jordan
was cancelled even before the US
president's jet left the tarmac Jordan's
King Abdullah II and Palestinian
president muhmmed Abbas pulled out after
a blast at a hospital in Gaza killed
hundreds of people as we mentioned the
Aman Summit was meant to bring together
the leaders of the US Egypt Jordan and
the Palestinian
Authority DW's senior International
correspondent fny FAA is standing by in
Tel Aviv Fannie as we heard there the US
president has directed his National
Security team to investigate that
hospital Blast how difficult is it going
to be funny to establish exactly what
happened
there well the question is not only just
how difficult is going to be to
establish any information here but also
once their results beat by the United
States or by Israel because Israel is
claiming that they have intercepted for
example communication ahead of this
blast of Islamic Jihad that they blame
for the attack and that they also have
surveillance footage that they are
likely to publish the question is
regardless what's being published who is
going to trust that here in the region
and how that is going to influence how
the conflict is going to evolve further
on I have to underline here something
very important right after the attack in
Gaza for which Hamas militants and
Israel blame each other for for killing
at least 300 people but the number
according to Gaza Health officials goes
up up up to 500 uh people before all of
this H sorry right after this it was
Egypt and the United Arab Emirates among
the first countries to blame Israel for
the attack now one has to know that
before October 7th before the attack by
Hamas militants here in Israel these
countries pretty much the key players
for Israel when it comes to Friendly
relationships with Israel so how is that
going to evolve if these two key players
see Israel behind the attack it's a
really really difficult situation and
obviously it is appending the visit by
US President Biden here in Tel Aviv who
is expected to meet prime minister nanyu
in this hotel here right behind me later
today we're talking about Biden's visit
Fanny uh how does all of this complicate
his diplomatic efforts to stop this
conflict from spiraling out of
control a really good question because
prior to his visit in fact the goal for
President Biden to come to Israel but
also obviously to H meet p uh the the
head of the Palestinian Authority Mr
Abbas King Abdullah of Jordan uh the the
the head of Egypt in Jordan was away
trying to show that the US is still
somehow under control of the situation
it will be able to somehow deescalate
the situation but now it's really just
unclear especially after that Summit has
been cancelled uh first of all uh the
head of the Palestinian Authority abas
canceling the the the meeting with with
Biden and then uh the head of Jordan
calling that meeting off cancelling that
Summit completely so now it's unclear
just what message the us is going to
send from Israel as as it seems now as
it appears now the only person they will
be able to talk to here is the head of
Israel now it may deescalate in one way
or the other because we're hearing that
the White House is saying that Prime
that President Biden wants to ask some
tough questions Israel is regarded as a
friend but they will want to know more
about what's going to happen in the
coming days and weeks ahead also it
could uh serve as a breakthrough in some
way if the US is able to achieve here uh
some relief for the people in Gaza and
and have an impact on opening the Rafa
border crossing with Egypt to help and
make sure that Aid gets into Gaza Strip
Funnie thank you so much that was our
senior International correspondent fny
fatcha in
Tel